at dawn the cold-blooded iguanas
thaw from the night's chill absorbing
the heat of the equatorial sun
when they've warmed the coastline of
fernandina
comes alive
on this island food is scarce
and the only way to find it involves a
mission that seems
suicidal
only the larger adults dare to take the
plunge
marine iguanas are strong swimmers
with a single breath they can
comfortably dive to 30 feet
and all this effort for red and green
algae
which thrive in the cold water
marine iguanas are the world's only sea
lizards
but when their distant ancestors were
washed ashore in galapagos
they were land animals
to survive they were forced to tackle
the ocean
this male must praise as quickly as he
can
in these chilling waters his body
temperature falls fast
a 10 minute dive is about the most he
can manage
before his muscles seize up
fighting the surge back to the shore is
a herculean task
and to make matters worse
he must now run the gauntlet of sea
lions
they are the last thing the iguana needs
no harm is meant it's nothing more than
a rather one-sided game of cat and mass
you